# Geobroker Example

This project deploys an example application of [geobroker](https://github.com/MoeweX/geobroker) using [MockFog Light](https://github.com/OpenFogStack/MockFogLight).
One broker instance and two client instances are rolled out using docker images of the Geobroker Server and Geobroker MultiFileClient respectively.
The example data used by the client instances was generated using the [IoT Dataset Generator](https://github.com/MoeweX/IoTDSG).
As this whole project is a fork of MockFog Light, the setup and requirements are the same. Changes have only been applied to make Geobroker run
smoothly, and to remove some parts not needed by it. Changes are documented where appropriate.

## Setup and Experiment Execution

### Requirements
Before running any roles, you should setup a virtualenv and install all requirements

```fish
virtualenv venv
source venv/bin/activate.fish
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

In addition:
- aws credentials configured in `~/.aws/credentials`
- valid AWS ssh key stored at `./mockfog.pem`
- read the individual READMEs for each role (e.g. MockFog_Topology) -> do what they say

### Testbed Definition

The testbed has been changed to run one broker instance and two client instances, which connect to the broker.
It can be changed using the following steps:

- configure the topology via `testbed/topologies.py`
- create the testbed definition with `python testbed/generate_testbed_definition.py`

While the testbed definition supports setting multiple connections for nodes, the broker does not initiate any connections and
the clients only connect to the first connection (i.e. only one connection is supported by this setup). The clients also have to connect to a
server instance.

### MockFog Topology
This role:
- bootstraps (or destroys) an AWS infrastructure based on the generated testbed definition
- adds the **testbed_config** field to hostvars; useable via other roles and templates, e.g., `hostvars[inventory_hostname].testbed_config.bandwidth_out` (actually done on the fly via `ec2.py`)
- sets the name, internal_ip, and role tag of EC2 instances
Use with:
```fish
ansible-playbook --key-file=mockfog.pem --ssh-common-args="-o StrictHostKeyChecking=no" mockfog_topology.yml --tags bootstrap
ansible-playbook --key-file=mockfog.pem --ssh-common-args="-o StrictHostKeyChecking=no" mockfog_topology.yml --tags destroy
```

### MockFog Network
This role:
- configures delays via TC
Use with:
```fish
ansible-playbook -i inventory/ec2.py --key-file=mockfog.pem --ssh-common-args="-o StrictHostKeyChecking=no" mockfog_network.yml
```

### MockFog Application
This role:
- deploys application on nodes and starts it (default experiment workload runs for 15minutes)
- collects logs (this does not stop any programs, can be run multiple times, e.g., to get intermediary results)
Use with:
```fish
ansible-playbook -i inventory/ec2.py --key-file=mockfog.pem --ssh-common-args="-o StrictHostKeyChecking=no" mockfog_application.yml --tags deploy
ansible-playbook -i inventory/ec2.py --key-file=mockfog.pem --ssh-common-args="-o StrictHostKeyChecking=no" mockfog_application.yml --tags collect
```
Logs get the name of their instance added to their name while collecting.

## Additional Information

### CSV Files for Clients
The clients need a set of csv files generated by the IoT Dataset Generator to work. These files need to be zipped using the following structure:
`{ name of client node }.zip/multifile/[csv files]`, where the zip has the name of its corresponding client instance (which is set in the testbed
definition). These zip files then need to be put into the `hiking/` folder, MockFockLight copies them to the respective VMs.

### Folder Structure on AWS Instances
Several files are copied to the AWS instances and then mounted into docker. What gets copied where is documented here.

#### Geobroker Server

The default image is pulled from docker hub: **hasenburg/geobroker-server**.
First, the configuration files in `MockFogLight/mockfog_application_geobroker_server/templates` are copied to the VM broker instances, into
the folder `/geobroker_server/files`. This behavior can be controlled by updating the **folder** field in `MockFogLight/mockfog_application_geobroker_server/defaults/main.yml`.
This VM's folder is then mounted as `/files` into docker. Additionally, the `/geobroker_server/logs` folder is mounted as `/logs_sync` in
docker to later collect the log files.

#### Geobroker Client

The default image is pulled from docker hub: **hasenburg/geobroker-client**.
The mounting here is similar to the server, but files on the VM are stored in `/geobroker_client` instead of `/geobroker_server` and configuration on the host is done in `MockFogLight/mockfog_application_geobroker_client/defaults/main.yml`. Furthermore, the csv files for the client
instances are copied to `/geobroker_client/files/multifile` (VM) and mounted in docker at `/files/multifile`.

## Experiment Visualization

The visualization folder contains a Jupyter notebook for result visualization. It should work out of the box, if your experiment results are stored at `logs/`.
